NHG-Privacy-Policy-2021.pdf
PRIVACY POLICY Version 1.0 01082021
Sign off
This document requires the following approvals.
Name
Role
Signature
Date
Version
Patrick Lubbe
Chief Executive Officer
23-08-2021
1.0
Brett De Klerk
Chief Operating Officer
23-08-2021
1.0
Mandla Moyo
Financial Director
23-08-2021
1.0
Rueon Rapoza
Business Development
Executive
23-08-2021
1.0
Ria Baas
Corporate Business
Development
Executive
23-08-2021
1.0
Tiffanie Rodger
Financial & Executive
Assistant
23-08-2021
1.0
Linda Motaung
Snr Accountant &
Compliance Manager
23-08-2021
1.0
Changelog
Version Date
Author
Description
Privacy Policy
This encompasses all privacy issues relating to POPIA
Author:
Creation date:
Linda Motaung
01/08/2021
Doc. Ref.:
Version:
Privacy Policy – NHG V1.0
1.0
Distribution
This document will be distributed to:
Name
Title
Date of Issue
Version Version 1.0 01082021
PRIVACY POLICY
National Health Group (Pty) Ltd incorporating Enablemed (Pty) Ltd, hereinafter referred to as
National HealthCare Group, recognises the importance of protecting personal information and
the constitutional right of its customers to have their personal information kept private,
confidential and used only for lawful purposes. As prescribed in the POPI Act (Act 4 of 2013),
the National HealthCare Group aims to adhere to all data protection laws and has
implemented safeguards to ensure that all the personal information relating to its customers
is kept safe from unauthorised access.
Please read this Privacy Policy carefully to understand how your personal information
will be handled by National HealthCare Group.
1. ABOUT THE GROUP
National Health Group (Pty) Ltd is a legally registered Managed Care and Healthcare
Administrator that provides healthcare services to low-income Employer groups, Insurers and
the Medical-Aid industry. The Group is subject to various South African laws as a healthcare
service provider and adheres to the ethical rules that protect the privacy and confidentiality of
its member’s personal information, namely the POPI Act.
Contact details of the Group:
Physical Address:
Office 0302, Mill House, Boundary Terraces, Corner Campground and
Mariendahl Lane, Newlands, 7700, Cape Town
Postal Address:
PO Box 44331, Claremont, 7700
Telephone Number: 021 276 5600
Email address:
compliance@nationalhealthcare.co.za
Website address:
www.nationalhealthcare.co.za
2. INFORMATION OFFICER
Information Officer of the Group:
Name:
Patrick Lubbe
Email:
compliance@nationalhealthcare.co.za
Telephone:
0860 002 400
3. DEFINITION OF TERMS
3.1 “Data subject” refers to the person (e.g., member) or entity to whom the personal
information relates.
3.2 “Personal information” has the meaning assigned to it in POPIA and refers to
information relating to human beings and certain juristic persons. It includes information Version 1.0 01082021
such as race, gender, pregnancy, age, health status and medical information, date of birth,
identity number, contact details and confidential correspondence.
3.3 “Processing” has the meaning assigned to it in POPIA and refers to any operation or
activity concerning personal information, such as the collection, receipt, recording,
storage, updating, alteration, use, distribution, erasure, or destruction of the information.
3.4 “POPIA/ POPI Act” means the Protection of Personal Information Act (Act 4 of 2013) and
its Regulations.
3.5 “We” / “us” refers to National Health Group (NHG) also known as National Healthcare.
This definition includes Enablemed (Pty) Ltd, as the latter is a fully owned subsidiary of
NHG.
3.6 “Member” / “You” / “Customers” refers to the data subject (i.e., the person or entity)
whose personal information is processed by the Group.
3.7 “Republic” refers to the Republic of South Africa
4. APPLICATION OF THE PRIVACY POLICY
This Privacy Policy applies to personal information that we have in our possession or under
our control and personal information that we collect from our customers. It stipulates, amongst
others, how we collect the information, the type of information collected, why that information
is collected, the circumstances under which that information will be shared with others, the
security measures that we have implemented to protect the information and how you may
obtain access to correct your information.
5. OUR COMMITMENT
We understand the importance of protecting personal information thus we are committed to
conducting our business activities lawfully in accordance with the Privacy laws of the Republic.
We will, therefore, only process, which includes collect, use, store or disclose, our members
personal information in accordance with the law to offer contractually approved healthcare
services and we will always strive to keep our members personal information confidential. We
have implemented a number of processes to make sure that the personal information of our
members that is in our care is used responsibly and protected in the right way.
We apply the following principles in order to protect our members privacy:
•
We only collect the personal information that is necessary,
•
We only use personal information for the purposes specified in this Privacy Policy,
•
We do not keep personal information longer than needed for lawful purposes; and
•
We only share our members personal information as specified in this Privacy Policy and
as permitted in terms of the law. Version 1.0 01082021
6. COLLECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
The Group collects personal information directly from its customers who are Employer groups,
Insurers and Medical Aid schemes as part of carrying out its contractual duties. At times, the
Group may directly collect personal information from registered members of Employer groups,
Insurers/ Medial Aid schemes when they supply information on the Group’s website or on the
various interactive social media communication platforms.
Personal Information may also be collected from other sources, depending on the
circumstances, when it is, for example, not possible to obtain the information directly from
members or to protect the legitimate interests of members as part of a provision of medical
services. The information may be collected from persons, such as the members next-of-kin,
other health care practitioners involved in the care or when the members information is publicly
available. The information that we collect about members is necessary to ensure they are
provided with the contractually required healthcare services.
7. PROCESSING OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
There are various laws that permit the processing of personal information in the provision of
contractual healthcare services such as the National Health Act, POPI Act and the Medical
Schemes Act. Employment laws of the Republic permit the processing of employee’s
information by the employer for the fulfilment of legal administrative obligations.
As far as the Company understands, all personal information is deemed private and attended
to according to the POPI Act. We process the personal information listed below, if applicable
in the circumstances, and retain it as part of our records:
7.1    Records relating to the formation of the company:
Documents related to the establishment of the company, CIPC documents,
memorandum of incorporation, its directors and shareholders records as required in
terms of the Companies Act 71 of 2008; a shareholders’ agreement; shareholders
register, other statutory records; governance documents (e.g., company policies,
minutes of meetings); company number registration and other related documents.
7.2
Employment records:
Employment contracts; conditions of employment and workplace policies; skills
development plans and training records; salary register; relevant tax records; leave
records; medical scheme membership records; Pension and Provident fund records;
performance indicators and other correspondence. In the provision of caring of
employees relevant medical and disability information, including Covid-19 screening Version 1.0 01082021
information may be collected.
In the case of Job applicants, the Group collects information such as titles, identity
numbers, dates of birth, age, contact details, addresses, HPCSA / statutory council
number, nationality, gender, race, qualifications, specialisation, interests, vetting and
other information that may be included on CVs. This information is destroyed should the
employment process not move forward with the applicant. In the case of successful
employment, the details form part of the employee file which is subject to POPIA
protection laws.
7.3
Health administration records:
In the provision of healthcare services, the National Health Group may collect however
not limited to the following: Member medical records; photos, healthcare benefits; patient
communication; names and contact details of next-of-kin, billing and payment details,
claim related information such as procedures performed / treatment provided and
relevant reports (e.g., radiological images and reports, pathology results), and other
information on health-related services.
7.4
Referral records:
Doctor referral notes and other relevant reports.
7.5
Clinical trial / research studies records:
No records are kept by the company related to clinical trials / research studies.
7.6
Health and safety records:
Health and safety reports and other regulatory compliance records required by the law.
7.7
Financial records:
Financial statements; auditors’ reports; accounting records; bank statements; invoices,
statements and receipts; remittance advices; tax returns and related documentation.
7.8
Records related to assets:
Asset register; purchase records; licences; financing and lease agreements; sale and
purchase agreements; delivery notes and orders.
7.9
Agreements:
Agreements and related documentation with service providers, contractors, consultants,
suppliers, vendors, medical schemes, doctors who are approved providers, professional
assistants and other business-related agreements. Version 1.0 01082021
7.10 Public and private body (e.g., regulators and medical schemes) records:
Official accreditation documents; benefit schedules and other healthcare administration
related correspondence.
7.11 Insurance records (including professional indemnity cover):
Policies, cover, claims and related records.
8. CONSENT
The processing of personal information is subject to the consent received through contractual
agreements with the various Employer Groups, Insurers and Medical Aid Schemes. Consent
of member may be withdrawn at any time. This does not affect the processing of personal
information that has already occurred. Should a member withdraw consent through the
Employer Group, Insurer and Medical Aid scheme, this will be processed as provided for in
the law.
9. OBJECTION TO PROCESSING
When we process personal information, it is with the intention to promote our members
healthcare interests, to ensure that their healthcare benefits are accessed and processed
according to the relevant rules. The members may however object to our processing, if it is
reasonable to do so. This must occur on the form prescribed by POPI Act, available at
reception / from the Group’s Information Officer or from the Information Regulator. This does
not affect the personal information that has already processed. Should a member object and
the Group agrees with the objection, the members personal information will only be processed
as provided for in the law.
10. PURPOSES OF PROCESSING OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
All Information that the Group collects is collected with the aim of providing healthcare services
as per our contractual agreements.
The collected information is used to carry out business activities such as:
•
Information is used for the administration of the contracted healthcare service,
•
Information is used for the provision of managed care services on the contracted
healthcare plan,
•
Information is used for the provision of relevant information to a contracted third party
who requires this information in order to provide a healthcare service to members and
beneficiaries on our healthcare plan, Version 1.0 01082021
•
Information is used for reporting to persons and bodies, as required and authorised in
terms of the law or by the data subjects,
•
Information is used for employment / contracting and related matters of the Groups
employees,
•
Information may be used, at the request of the regulator for the support of law
enforcement structures, including courts and tribunals,
•
Information may be used for any other lawful purpose related to the activities of the
Group.
11. DISCLOSURE OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
We will share only relevant personal information about our members with our business
partners if it is necessary and lawful in the provision of healthcare services. We share this
personal information with our service providers that help with our business activities, including
but not limited to benefit management, claim processing, bank refunds and other health care
administration related services. In adherence to the POPI Act, we require our service providers
to keep our members personal information safe and secure. We do not allow our service
providers to use or share our members personal information for any purpose other than
providing services on our behalf.
We do not sell or provide personal information to third parties for independent use. However,
as a healthcare services provider and administrator, we do share personal information with
our healthcare business partners and suppliers when that information is required to provide
the healthcare service necessary to carry out services.
Our business partners, suppliers and service providers are committed to adhering to the POPI
Act and to using the members information only as directed by us and as per our contractual
agreements with the relevant Employer Groups, Insurers/ Medical Aid Schemes.
12. RECORD-KEEPING
We maintain the records of our members personal information for as long as legally required
for the lawful executing of our business activities, in the provision of healthcare services.
13. INFORMATION SENT ACROSS THE BORDERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
We process and store our members information in records within the Republic South Africa. If
we must provide personal information to any third party in another country, we will obtain prior
consent from members unless such information may be lawfully provided to that third party. Version 1.0 01082021
14. SECURITY OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
We value the information that our members choose to provide us for business purposes and
will therefore take reasonable steps to protect this personal information from loss, misuse or
unauthorised alteration. The information we maintain concerning our members is stored in
databases that have built-in safeguards to ensure the privacy and confidentiality of that
information.
We have implemented safeguards, continually review and update our information protection
measures to ensure the security, integrity, and confidentiality of the information in accordance
with industry best practices. We use industry-standard technology and encryption to prevent
any unauthorised access to the personal information. We use security technology to ensure
that the health-related transactions and client personal information stored with us are
adequately secured and protected at all times. Electronic transactions are held in a secure
environment, with controlled staff access subject to the application of appropriate passwords
and other computer and software security techniques. Physically the offices are secured
through industry standard office locking technology.
We also require our employees and contractors to adhere to our information protection
standards, only those employees and service providers that require access to member
information to discharge their functions and to render services to us are granted access to the
information. In the interest of providing secure healthcare services to our customers, our
suppliers and employees have concluded agreements with or provided undertakings
regarding the implementation of appropriate security measures, maintaining confidentiality
and processing the information only for the agreed purposes.
Whilst we will do all things reasonably necessary to protect our members personal information,
we cannot guarantee nor do we accept any liability of whatsoever nature for any unauthorised
or unlawful disclosure and/or use of the members personal information, either by employees
and/or made by any third parties (including third party service providers) who are not subject
to our control, unless such disclosure and/or use is as a result of our gross negligence. We
will inform the affected member and the Information Regulator, if any person has unlawfully
obtained access to a member’s personal information, subject to the provisions of the law.
15. RIGHT TO ACCESS YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
Upon a reasonable request and in accordance with the POPI Act, members have the right to
request access to the personal information in our possession or under our control and
information of third parties to whom we supplied that information subject to restrictions Version 1.0 01082021
imposed in legislation. Should a member wish to exercise this right, the prescribed form needs
to be completed, available at reception / from the Information Officer and the Information
Regulator. This may be submitted to the Group’s compliance mail address:
compliance@nationalhealthcare.co.za. Costs may be applicable to such request, which can
be obtained from the Information Regulator/ Group receptionist / Group Information Officer.
Please consult our PAIA Manual for further information.
16. ACCURACY OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
It is important that we always have accurate information about our members on record as it
could impact our provision of service and reliable communication. Our members must
therefore inform us as soon as any of their information has changed. They may also request
us to correct or delete any information. Such a request must be made in writing on the
prescribed form, available at reception / from the Information Officer, and be submitted to the
receptionist / Information Officer/ Compliance e-mail address. There must be sufficient detail
to identify the information and the correction / deletion required. Information will only be
corrected / deleted, if we agree that the information is incorrect or should be deleted.
It may not be possible to delete all the information if we may lawfully retain it. Please enquire
at reception or contact the Information Officer to discuss how we can assist you with your
request. If we correct any information and the corrected information will impact on any decision
made or to be made about the member, we will send the corrected information to persons to
whom the information has been disclosed in the past if they should be aware of the changed
information.
17. CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY
National Health Group reserves the right in our sole and absolute discretion, to revise or
supplement this Privacy Policy from time to time to reflect, amongst others, any changes in
our business or the law. We will publish the updated Privacy Policy on our website. It will also
be available at the company’s office reception. Any revised version of the Policy will be
effective as of the date of posting on the website, so you should always refer back to the
website for the latest version of the Policy.
It is our members/customers responsibility to make sure they are satisfied with any
changes before continuing to use our services. If you have any questions concerning this
Policy, please contact our compliance e-mail address or the Information Officer. Version 1.0 01082021
18. CONCERNS AND COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE PROCESSING OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION
All enquiries, requests or concerns regarding this Policy or relating to the processing of
personal information by the Group should be addressed to the Information Officer. You may
also lodge a complaint with the Information Regulator at complaints.IR@justice.gov.za. We
would appreciate the opportunity to respond to your concerns before you approach the
Information Regulator.
19. LAWS APPLICABLE TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY
This Privacy Policy is governed by the laws of the Republic of South Africa.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
